Now lastly we can work on our blade and handle.
So first off what I'm going to do is I'm going to turn off my head layer and my hair layer so that I
can see my blade better.
So I'll scroll up there.
Here's the head.
And there's the hair.
Oh and my goggles layer.
We want to turn that off too.
So now we can see our blade a lot better next we don't want to do.
I want to come down to my blade layer.
I'm going to create a new clipping mask.
We're going to drag that clipping mask above our color layer then using the Lasso tool and making sure
you're on the Polygonum Lasso tool which means you can create straight lines are going to create the
shape of the edge of our blade.
Something like that should work next.
We're going to change our color to the color white and we're going to fill that in next.
Let's change the Slayer type.
So I'll come over here.
Let's change it to overlay.
Awesome.
Now we're going to bring down the opacity on that
think about 50 percent looks good.
In unselect out of the selection.
Now we want to add an edge to this blade over here too since our light source is coming from over here.
We're going to make this side more of a shadow.
So a user Lasso tool again starting from this corner we're going to create our edge and we'll follow
that edge as best as possible.
Then we're going to fill this in with a dark gray
somewhere around there.
OK.
And we're just going to keep this on the same layer
Next what I want to do is I'm going to create a new clipping mask and using my brush tool with a soft
edge.
I'm going to give it a soft edge on the bottom side of this blade.
This is just to help make it look more metallic.
So increase the size of my brush and paint across like so it's a little bit too dark for me.
So going to bring down the opacity.
Great.
I'm going to switch back over to white then I'll add a new layer and I'm going to add a little bit of
a light reflection right here.
This is just because the light would probably be bouncing off the wood and giving a wider reflection
onto the metal.
Now that's a little bit too bright so I'm going to turn that down.
Looks about good to me.
Lastly I'd like to add some chips to the edge of our blade that I'll just give it some more character.
The way we're going to do this is first we're going to select all of our layers in our blade folder
then we're going to hit Control J on our keyboard or command.
Jay if you're on a Mac.
Well this is done.
It's now copied all of those letters I had selected.
So now I have two versions of them.
I'm doing this because I'm about to merge these layers together and I'm going to lose all of my layers
when I do that.
So I want backup in case something goes wrong.
So now let's put all of these into a folder.
And we'll leave layers
now we can select all of these layers.
And merge them together.
Now we want to turn off our layers folder.
That's because it's creating a second blade on top of our other blade.
So once we start doing things to the bottom blade you're not going to be able to see it because it's
covered up by the second blade.
So let's turn that off now.
Let's use our Lasso tool and we're going to start creating little triangles into our blade.
Then we can hit delete and I'll cut that out.
Let's create a second one.
Want to make this one a little bit more rounded.
And we don't want to do too many
less is always more
awesome.
I think that looks cool.
We can turn his head on and see how they look together.
Awesome.
It's looking good.
Now let's go ahead and label all those layers.
Awesome.
It's looking good.
Now we can go ahead and close that folder.
Now let's move on to the handle so let's create a new clipping mask.
And we'll drag that to the top.
Next we're going to select the brown color on the handle and we're going to create a shadow color for
it.
And using our brush making sure we're on a hard edged brush.
You can start painting in those shadows.
I'm going to add a circle shadow right here.
And that's because I'm eventually going to add a jewel there.
Now let's create a new cooking mask and bring it to the top.
And let's select our handle color and let's create a lighter version of that hit.
OK.
Then we can start painting on our highlight
awesome.
Now lastly let's add in that jewel.
So I like this blue color so I'm going to make my jewel that color so I'll add a new layer.
It doesn't matter if it's a clipping mask or not.
Next we're going to select this shadow blue and using our paintbrush.
Let's go ahead and paint in our jewel.
We want to make sure that the shadow is on this side of the jewel.
Next we'll select this lighter blue then using our paint brush paint in a circle within this circle
like so Next let's brighten this color of blue to about there.
OK.
Now we can add a nice highlight to our jewel awesome.
Now it really looks like a jewel.
This is fantastic.
We made it to the end of creating our character.
Now in the next lecture I'm going to show you how you can make some adjustments and do some cool things
with your characters.
But we're basically done with the design.
Thank you for watching this lecture and I can't wait to see you in the next one.